.. _infer_tutorial:

Bayesian inference of Parameter Values
======================================

:ref:`Scattering calculations <calc_tutorial>` can inform us about the
hologram produced by a specific scatterer, but they can't tell us anything about
what type of scatterer produced an experimentally measured hologram. For this
inverse scattering problem, we turn to a Bayesian inference approach. We
calculate the holograms produced by many similar scatterers, and we evaluate
which ones are closest to our measured hologram. We can then use known
information about the scatterers to determine the parameters of the scatterer
(for example, its size and refractive index) that are most likely to have
produced the observed hologram.

In the following example, we will infer the size, refractive index, and position
of a spherical scatterer. The approach and formalism is
described in more detail in [Dimiduk2016]_. For more information on Bayesian inference in
general, see [Gregory2005]_.

Here is the full example.  We'll go through it step-by-step afterward::

    import holopy as hp
    import numpy as np
    from holopy.core.io import get_example_data_path, load_average
    from holopy.core.process import bg_correct, subimage, normalize
    from holopy.scattering import Sphere, calc_holo
    from holopy.inference import prior, AlphaModel, tempered_sample

    # load an image
    imagepath = get_example_data_path('image01.jpg')
    raw_holo = hp.load_image(imagepath, spacing = 0.0851, medium_index = 1.33, illum_wavelen = 0.66, illum_polarization = (1,0))
    bgpath = get_example_data_path(['bg01.jpg','bg02.jpg','bg03.jpg'])
    bg = load_average(bgpath, refimg = raw_holo)
    data_holo = bg_correct(raw_holo, bg)

    # process the image
    data_holo = subimage(data_holo, [250,250], 200)
    data_holo = normalize(data_holo)

    # Set up the prior
    s = Sphere(n=prior.Gaussian(1.5, .1), r=prior.BoundedGaussian(.5, .05, 0, np.inf),
             center=prior.make_center_priors(data_holo))

    # Set up the noise model
    noise_sd = data_holo.std()
    model = AlphaModel(s, noise_sd=noise_sd, alpha=1)

    result = tempered_sample(model, data_holo)

    result.values()
    hp.save('example-sampling.h5', result)

The first few lines import the code needed to compute holograms and do parameter estimation.

..  testcode::

    import holopy as hp
    import numpy as np
    from holopy.core.io import get_example_data_path, load_average
    from holopy.core.process import bg_correct, subimage, normalize
    from holopy.scattering import Sphere, calc_holo
    from holopy.inference import prior, AlphaModel, tempered_sample

Preparing Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Next, we load a hologram from a file using the same steps as those in
:ref:`load_tutorial`

..  testcode::

    # load an image
    imagepath = get_example_data_path('image01.jpg')
    raw_holo = hp.load_image(imagepath, spacing = 0.0851, medium_index = 1.33, illum_wavelen = 0.66, illum_polarization = (1,0))
    bgpath = get_example_data_path(['bg01.jpg','bg02.jpg','bg03.jpg'])
    bg = load_average(bgpath, refimg = raw_holo)
    data_holo = bg_correct(raw_holo, bg)

You will notice that the hologram data is localized to a region near the center
of the image. We only want to compare calculated holograms to this region, so we
will crop our image with :func:`.subimage`. We also need to normalize the data
so that its mean is 1, since calculations return a normalized result. Since our
image is background divided, its mean is already very close to 1, but it is good
to get in the habit of normalizing anyway.

..  testcode::

    # process the image
    data_holo = subimage(data_holo, [250,250], 200)
    data_holo = normalize(data_holo)

..  note::

    It is often useful to test an unfamiliar technique on data for which you know the expected outcome.
    Instead of actual data, you could use a hologram calculated from :func:`.calc_holo`, and modulated
    by random noise with :func:`.add_noise`.

Defining a Probability Model
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Priors
------

We know that the hologram was produced by a spherical scatterer, so we want to
define a :class:`.Sphere` object like we did in the :ref:`calc_tutorial`
tutorial. However, in this case we don't know what parameters to specify for the
sphere (since that is what we're trying to find out). Instead, we write down a
probabilistic statement of our prior information about the sphere. In
statistics, we call this a prior. For the case we are investigating here, we
would probably have some best guess and uncertainty about the size and index of
the particle, obtained from the supplier or from prior work with the particle.
We will guess the radius to be 0.5 micrometers (with 50 nm error) and refractive
index to be 1.5 (with 0.1 error). We also need to provide a prior for the
position of the sphere. We can use a :func:`.hough` transform to get a pretty
good guess of where the particle is in x and y, but it is difficult to determine
where it is in z.

..  note::

    One trick to get a better estimate of z position is to numerically propagate
    the hologram backwards in space with :func:`.propagate`, and look for where
    the interference fringes vanish.

Let's turn our information about priors into code by defining our scatterer:

..  testcode::

    s = Sphere(n=prior.Gaussian(1.5, .1), r=prior.BoundedGaussian(.5, .05, 0, np.inf),
             center=prior.make_center_priors(data_holo))

We use a Gaussian distribution as the prior because it is the most conservative
distribution we can use if all we know is some expected value and some
uncertainty on that expected value. For the radius we also know that it must be
nonnegative, so we can bound the Gaussian at zero. The
:func:`.make_center_priors` function automates generating priors for a sphere
center using :func:`.center_find` (based on a hough transform). It assigns
Gaussian priors for x and y, and picks a large uniform prior for z to represent
our ignorance about how far the particle is from the imaging plane. In this case
the center prior will be::
    
    [Gaussian(mu=11.4215, sd=0.0851),
    Gaussian(mu=9.0945, sd=0.0851),
    Uniform(lower_bound=0, upper_bound=170.2)]

..  testcode::
    :hide:

    print(s.center[0])

..  testoutput::
    :hide:

    Gaussian(mu=24.186546323529495, sd=0.08510000000000062)


Tying Parameters
----------------

You may desire to use *tied priors*, in which several physical quantities that
could be varied independently are constrained to have the same (but non-constant)
value. A common example involves multi-particle holograms in which all of the
particles are constrained to have the same refractive index, but the index is
determined by the Bayesian inference method.  This may be done by defining a
prior and using it in multiple places :

..  testcode::

    from holopy.scattering import Spheres

    n_prior = prior.Gaussian(1.5, .1)

    s1 = Sphere(n=n_prior, r=prior.BoundedGaussian(.5, .05, 0, np.inf),
                center=prior.make_center_priors(data_holo))
    s2 = Sphere(n=n_prior, r=prior.BoundedGaussian(.5, .05, 0, np.inf),
                center=prior.make_center_priors(data_holo))

    spheres = Spheres([s1, s2])

And then defining the model using :

..  testcode::

    model = AlphaModel(spheres, noise_sd=noise_sd, alpha=1)


Likelihood
----------

Next we need to define a model that tells HoloPy how probable it is that we
would see the data we observed given some hypothetical scatterer position, size
and index. In the language of statistics, this is referred to as a likelihood.
In order to compute a likelihood, you need some estimate of how noisy your data
is (so that you can figure out how likely it is that the differences between
your model and data could be explained by noise). Here we use the standard
deviation of the data, which is an overestimate of the true noise, since it also
includes variation due to our signal.

..  testcode::

  noise_sd = data_holo.std()
  model = AlphaModel(s, noise_sd=noise_sd, alpha=1)

..  note::

    ``alpha`` is a model parameter that scales the scattered beam intensity
    relative to the reference beam. It is often less than 1 for reasons that are
    poorly understood. If you aren't sure what value it should take in your
    system, you can allow ``alpha`` to vary by giving it a prior, as we did with
    the sphere parameters.

Sampling the Posterior
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Finally, we can sample the posterior probability for this model. Essentially, a
set of proposed scatterers are randomly generated according to the priors we
specified. Each of these scatterers is then evaluated in terms of how well it
matches the experimental hologram ``data_holo``. A Monte Carlo algorithm
iteratively produces and tests sets of scatterers to find the scatterer
parameters that best reproduce the target hologram. We end up with a
distribution of values for each parameter (the posterior) that represents our
updated knowledge about the scatterer when accounting for the expected
experimental hologram. To do the actual sampling, we use
:func:`.tempered_sample` (ignoring any RuntimeWarnings about invalid values)::

    result = tempered_sample(model, data_holo)

The above line of code may take a long time to run (it takes 10-15 mins on our
8-core machines). If you just want to quickly see what the results look like,
try:

..  testcode::

    result = tempered_sample(model, data_holo, nwalkers=10, samples=100, max_pixels=100)

This code should run very quickly, but its results cannot be trusted for any
actual data. Nevertheless, it can give you an idea of what format the results
will take. In our last line of code, we have adjusted three parameters to make
the code run faster: ``nwalkers`` describes the number of scatterers produced in
each generation. ``samples`` describes how many generations of scatterers to
produce. Together, they define how many scatterering calculations must be
performed. For the values chosen in the fast code, a Monte Carlo steady state
will not yet have been achieved, so the resulting posterior distribution is not
very meaningful. ``max_pixels`` describes the maximum number of pixels compared
between the experimental holgoram and the test holograms. It turns out that
holograms contain a lot of redundant information owing to their symmetry, so a
subset of pixels can be analyzed without loss of accuracy. However, 100 pixels
is probably too few to capture all of the relevant information in the hologram.

You can get a quick look at our obtained values with:

..  testcode::

    result.values()

``result.values()`` gives you the maximum a posteriori probability (MAP) value as
well as one-sigma credibility intervals (or you can request any other sigma with
an argument to the function). You can also look only at central measures::

    result.MAP
    result.mean
    result.median

Since calculation of useful results takes a long time, you will usually want to
save them to an hdf5 file::

   hp.save('example-sampling.h5', result)

References
~~~~~~~~~~

.. [Gregory2005] Gregory, P. (2005) Bayesian Logical Data Analysis. Cambridge University Press
